As with any major version upgrade
you've got to expect some removal of constructs and packages
within the library because this is the opportunity
that developers have to remove that deprecated code,
and Spring is not different.
One of the first things that we're going to notice
is the BeanFactoryLocator, which comes from the package
beans.factory.access has been actually removed.
Now this happens a lot of times
with layered application contexts.
A lot of times we see this interior architectures
of EJB applications.
Now the solution to this problem is really a couple options.
First, and the one that I would choose,
is to move away from EJBs.
That's not to always possible,
but if you leverage EJB 3.1, you can use CDI,
which should replace the need for the BeanFactoryLocators.
NativeJdbcExtractors were also removed in Spring 5.0.
This comes from the package jdbc.support.nativejdbc.
This was used to extract native objects
from the JDBC abstraction.
Things like raw connections, native result sets, etc.
The construct that has now been provided,
is the connection.unwrap() method,
and I encourage you to look at that within the package.
The next change comes from removing the
AnnotationDrivenStaticEntityMockingControl.
Now this is something that was used for static mocks
and, to be honest, it's not something I've ever used.
It was used to aspect static entry of mock support in tests.
There are many other libraries
you can do to do this same thing.
So it's no longer supported,
but if you can find a library
that isn't being kept up-to-date with the latest JDK,
you can use that for those static mocks.
Now this really applies only to test compile-time aspecting
and we're not going to get into that
throughout the rest of the course.
Just know that this was a change.
Now there were several major version upgrades
with common web components, as well as back-end components.
If you're using tiles, Tiles 2 is removed,
and now you should be using Tiles 3.
If you're using Hibernate, 3 and 4 were both removed
in favor of Hibernate 5.
A lot of times when you're doing JPA development
you're using Spring Data JPA,
you may not even know
that you're using Hibernate behind the scenes,
and you're going to get Hibernate 5 out of the box.
But if you are using Hibernate natively,
make sure you upgrade to Hibernate 5.
Now there's been several contracts
that have been fully removed.
Portlets are gone.
Velocity template rendering is gone much to my chagrin.
I liked Velocity template rendering,
especially when dealing with email templates
for internal applications.
JasperReports are also gone and XMLBeans are gone.
Java Data Objects from the Java object persistence are gone,
and Guava support is no longer available.
A couple additional changes per the documentation
are listed and I encourage you to go read those.
There were many other deprecated classes
that were removed across the codebase,
and some compromises were made for commonly used methods
that may have been deprecated.
So again refer to the documentation for a lot of these.
These are just high-level changes
that have occurred across the platform as whole.